It's 9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen,
and here in Hong Kong. You're watching
the China Show. I'm David Inglass. Let's
uh countdown, of course, to the open of
markets in greater China. Here we go.
Let's get to your top stories today. The
US and Iran agreed to a two-week
ceasefire in exchange for Thran
reopening the street of Hormuz. And the
ceasefire plan is also said to allow
both Iran and Oman to charge fees on
ships transiting through stocks,
treasuries, gold, all jumping this
morning. Analysts say the extent of this
rally hinges on that very condition, the
reopening of the straight. And on that
very note, Iran says safe passage
through the waterway is possible over
the next two weeks. Oil, as you can see
on your screen, plunging below $100 per
barrel. on that news.
Good morning. Welcome to the program.
Lots to get into following the breaking
news just over two hours back. Markets
are reacting quite positively to that.
Let me bring in my co-pilot over the
next two hours. Rebecca Chun Wilkins is
with us out of Singapore to help us
understand and really put context into
where we are right now. And Rebecca,
what a time for you to be back here just
to get us started. Top of mind for you
in as far as all this breaking news is
concerned, Rebecca.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I mean, good morning,
David, and what a day to be back. We've
had this long holiday in Hong Kong. It's
a big day for traders to be returning
to. Always expecting a lot of
volatility, but clearly we have both
sides being optimistic about the
progress that we've seen. We've seen
both sides really selling this deal as a
success. Interestingly, Donald Trump
saying that the 10-point plan by the
Iranians is a basis, a workable basis,
that's those are his words, uh, for
forward ongoing negotiations. The
critical element I think that's worth
watching here is what actually defines
failure, what needs to not happen for
this there to be a stumble or an
obstacle. That's really interesting and
I'm really looking out at how markets
price that calibration.
Does everything need to go right for
markets to continue on this current
trajectory? Uh, and to your point, does
nothing need to happen for markets to do
otherwise as well? And I think it's
that's an important point that Rebecca
just made, right? It's the 10-point plan
from the Iranians that is the basis for
the discussion. It's not the 15-point
plan that came through initially, of
course, from the from the other side.
Markets are running with this. We're
looking at substantial price action
across assets. As you can see, oil,
we're down 15%. The dollar is weaker
against just about everything, Asia is
up 3.3%. Um, other proxies of risk
assets, Aussie yen, uh, moving to the
upside, yields are pushing lower just
about across the board here, uh, in the
region. The equity market story is one
that you could guess almost immediately
with the Nikki up several percentage
points. The cost sidecar was actually
triggered there uh, in South Korea.
We're better by about 2 and a half% on
US futures and Taiwan is coming online
which then goes into this reopen that
we're waiting for and counting down to
here in Hong Kong. A50 futures are
punching 1 and a.5% to the upside.
Shanghai crude, let's wait for this to
really get warmed up. Dollar China, we
are now closer to 680. A few days ago,
24 hours back, we were closer to 690.
So, what a you know what a change these
last 24 hours, Rebecca?
>> Yeah, unbelievable, Dave. I mean, we
were all expecting a a bit of a showdown
in some ways, but to see this happening,
yeah, absolutely fascinating. For more,
let's bring in our Washington and White
House correspondent, Jeff Mason. I mean,
Jeff, just to kick off, tell us what
you're making of the latest
developments. And I really want to ask
you about durability here. Can this
last?
>> Well, to your second question, um, I
don't know. And we have certainly seen
over the last five plus weeks that
President Trump can change his mind
repeatedly. But this is, and I don't
need to tell you all, a really
significant step because a ceasefire has
not happened since the war began. And
the fact that both Iran and the United
States have agreed to that and that oil
is now going to flow through the strait
is a really big deal. And it's not only
a big deal because of the economic
impact that you were talking about
earlier, but also because of the
geopolitical
uh impact and the the opportunity here
for a longer term peace which the
president is speaking favorably about or
spoke favorably about uh in that truth
social post.
>> Jeff David here, can we make that just
to pick up on something you just
mentioned just now? Can we make can
markets make that assumption that oil
will now flow freely through the
straight of hormones?
>> So I'm not going to paint myself as an
energy expert, but what I what I can say
is what the two sides are saying, which
is the the president said that the
ceasefire deal was contingent on Iran
opening up the straight of Hormuz during
this twoe ceasefire period and Iran has
apparently agreed to those terms. So,
does that mean that there will not be
any hiccups? Probably not. Again, it's
President Trump isn't the only party uh
in this negotiation who can change his
mind or can uh lead to to some changes
on of interpretation or something gets
under his skin, some something gets
under Iranian skin. I have no way of
predicting that. But as of tonight, uh,
as of the the language that they have
put out in terms of what their agreement
is, then the suggestion would be that
it's going to open.
>> Jeff, Rebecca, Ju, just just to pick up
on that last point that you make about
the unpredictability, this element that
something could happen to the many
stakeholders in fact uh, involved in
this. Is that the biggest risk factor
here? Where do you see those risks
really lying now?
Well, surely the fact that uh the
president has really whipsed financial
markets and political watchers over the
last month plus with his rhetoric about
the war, with confusing messages about
his objectives for the war, and now with
the a ceasefire deal that was tied to
some very inflammatory rhetoric about uh
what the United States would do if the
if Iran did not come to the table. Uh
all of that is is I think an example of
of risk, an example of what could come
next if the next two weeks do not lead
to a more permanent deal. That said, uh
along those same lines, people are
beginning to call the president this uh
a taco president because he he changes
his mind. and he could change his mind
in a way that is positive for markets
that is positive for uh peace that is
positive for the relationship. So it can
go both ways. Right now it has gone in
the way of uh withholding or delaying
rather uh the attacks that he had uh
threatened and that gives a couple weeks
for negotiations to take place between
the two sides and see where they land.
Jeff, that is a good thing. The fact
that we are
we are where we are currently and not
talking about how the deadline had
expired and trying to figure out what is
going on on the ground. Just a final
question for you sir just in terms of
the other stakeholders involved in these
talks. Pakistan of course playing broker
just help us understand the other
stakeholders here. Lebanon has been
brought up where where those talks will
be taking place and will Israel be on
board?
So far, it looks like Israel is on
board. It does seem kind of unlikely
that the president would have announced
a ceasefire and not expected his partner
in this war, which is Israel to have
abided by that. Uh brief reminder, it
was Israel and the United States who
launched this war together more than 5
weeks ago. It is not a NATO war. It is
not an allied war beyond uh those two
countries. So yeah, I it looks like they
will also participate and that that's
certainly something that President Trump
wanted.
>> Jeff, thank you so much, sir. Jeff Mason
there, Bloomberg, Washington and White
House correspondent there. Joining us
now is Tita Parcy out of Washington as
well, executive vice president at the
Quincsey Institute. Treata, good morning
from the Asia Pacific. I want to get
straight to it and thank you by the way
for for being so patient with us right
now. You make this very important point
that these negotiations are the basis
for these discussions will be the
10-point plan coming through from Iran
and not the 15-point plan coming out of
the US. Why is that relevant?
>> Well, it's relevant because the 15point
plan was completely unworkable and the
10-point plans that the Iranians have
put forward obviously is closer to
Iran's interest than what they want to
see come out of this. So the fact that
Trump is accepting that the negotiations
are going to be based on Iran's proposal
rather than the US's proposal uh tells
us a lot about what actually has
happened here which is that Trump has
essentially recognized this was an
unwinable war. He had to take an exit
but the exit had to be based on uh
parameters that the Iranians had
defined. Now, of course, it doesn't mean
that a deal is secure, nor does it mean
that Trump will not in those
negotiations push back on a lot of those
different points, but the basis, the
framework is what the Iranians have put
forward.
And did the is it worth asking whether
the US had up to this point achieved its
objectives? In other words, is that
incentive to not return to bombing Iran,
is that still around going into these
talks? Look, I think one of the critical
things will now have changed in the
dynamic between the US and Iran and
these upcoming talks is that the potency
of American military threats in the
context of US Iran negotiations are now
um essentially lost. Trump can continue
to issue them, but they won't carry much
value because essentially we have tried
war with Iran and it failed. And Trump
is very likely not going to try it again
because it doesn't matter how he does
it. the Iranians will still have that
ability to squeeze the global economy
and it would be suicide for Trump to try
this again. So then upcoming talks are
going to have a very different dynamic
that is going to be based on an actual
compromise between the two sides rather
than the United States being able to
dictate the terms.
Tita Rebecca here I want to pick up on
the point David and I were chatting
about earlier which are the sort of
interlocuiters here particularly
Pakistan seems to have played a critical
role. Can you help us understand whether
you know Pakistan's connections to both
Trump and of course Iran helped get this
over the line?
So first of all, Pakistan uh was an you
know unexpected mediator in this does
not have much experience in mediating
between the US and Iran but is a country
that thankfully stepped up and we're in
a world in which increasingly few
countries are willing to step up and
play a diplomatic role because it's so
difficult and often times you end up
paying a price for it rather than being
praised. But Pakistan was essentially
two ways two days away from having zero
fuel left in its seages. So they were
hit very hard by this war. They had
strong incentives to try to resolve this
conflict and make sure that they
wouldn't face a major energy crisis. Now
they happen to have strong relations
with Trump uh uh because of the
mediation that Trump did last year
between India and uh and Pakistan. And
at the same time they have a
relationship with Iran. They're
neighbors with Iran. They have a
long-standing uh relationship with Iran.
Has not always been very positive, but
nevertheless, there's mutual respect
between the two countries. So, this put
them in a position in which they wanted
to play this role. They needed to play
this role and also had the personal
connections. Now, I don't think this was
done alone by the Pakistanis. I think
some details will come out in the next
couple of days that this involved other
countries as well, but Pakistan
nevertheless deserves a tremendous
amount of credit for having had the guts
to stick out its neck and offer its
diplomatic services.
>> You hinted there at some of the other
countries that may have been involved in
this. I mean one country that has been
named by the New York Times is China
apparently uh having implored uh the
Iranian side to uh have flexibility to
agree to some kind of a deal apparently
a lastm minute intervention there on
Beijing's part. When we look forward to
this meeting in Islam Islamabad on on
Friday, what are you expecting? To what
extent is Beijing going to play a role?
Who are the other key powers that we
should be looking at here?
I would not be surprised if the
negotiations obviously end up being a
direct bilateral negotiation between the
US and Iran, but that there will be
other major powers in the room. Russia,
China, perhaps other permanent members
of the security council. Part of the
reason for this is first of all, the
United States needed China. China has
leverage with Iran. uh and uh in some
ways China did the US a major favor by
leaning in on the Iranians to get them
to accept this. But also because of the
fact that the Iranians want to make sure
that the US doesn't attack it again. And
if the Chinese and others are involved,
serious countries, then it's not going
to be like it was last time when the US
and Israel twice attacked Iran in the
middle of the negotiations mediated by
Oman. it will be costlier to engage in
military attacks in the middle of
negotiations if the Chinese are at the
table. So I wouldn't be surprised if the
negotiations will be somewhat
internationalized after uh um after what
happened last time around.
It's a it's a temporary ceasefire. Is it
possible we make that jump into a more
permanent ceasefire? And where do you
think this leaves also
relations between Iran and its neighbors
after this?
>> So on the first point, uh hopefully this
will translate into a permanent durable
end to the conflict, not just a
ceasefire. That will very much depend on
Trump being able to control the Israelis
so that the Israelis do not sabotage
this. They have sabotaged previous
negotiations. They've already expressed
their displeasure with the fact that
Trump stopped at this point. They wanted
this war to continue. They wanted to go
as far as they could in terms of uh
destroying much of Iran's infrastructure
and essentially uh uh set it back
decades so that Iran would no longer be
able to pose a challenge to Israel's
designs in the region geopolitically.
Now whether he can do that or not or
whether he's willing to do that is a
different story. In the aftermath of all
of that, we will see what the new
equation will be in the region between
Iran and the GCC states. There's a lot
of bad blood. There's a lot of anger on
both sides. A lot of GCC countries, of
course, are very angry at Iran for
having been attacked. The Iranians have
provided evidence that many of these GCC
states actually did allow the United
States to use its territory and airspace
to attack Iran. So there's a loss of
confidence on both sides, but all of
them understand they're going to have to
live with each other in that region. So
they better find a way of diplomatically
solving this.
>> Yes, a fascinating point there on that
futureproofing element to all of this.
Uh Tita Pari, thank you so much for
joining us. That's the executive vice
president at the Quincy Institute
and uh subscribers can also tune into
the terminal for more on this. T Live Go
is your function here for the very
latest updates, plus commentary analysis
from our expert editors. And of course,
we are counting down to the open of
trade in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and Hong
Kong. This is the China Show,
right? uh we are set for a rally across
uh Chinese markets. Hong Kong of course
reopening today. It's obviously also
helps that the fact that you are getting
a weaker dollar which then also goes
into this fix which is the biggest
adjustment uh in about uh a month or so.
Joining us here on set Taiwe APAC chief
market strategist at JP Morgan asset
management. Very nice to see you and
good morning. Good morning. Good
morning.
>> Can I trust this rally?
Um I'm cautiously optimistic because I
think for the past one month and a bit
more this is the first time where um
both the US and Iran and also Israel
actually are uh pausing their military
action at least for the time being.
Previously the US wanted to pause but
Iran continues to attack. Um so I think
the fact that all three sides are
willing to pause and negotiate that is a
good start but at the same time is is
worth highlighting as your previous
guest mentioned u the negotiation is
going to be quite challenging
>> partly because what the Iranian is
demanding especially in things such as
the ending of sanctions I think it's
going to be quite difficult to push
through so um I think you know the
market is right in pricing in a pause
and the fact that the stroke home is
supposed to be reopened for at least two
weeks that will provide a little bit of
relief but I think the at least the
direction of travel as of this morning
is the right one but as we've seen in
the last few weeks it can still be quite
fragile can still be quite whipsing for
the markets so I would say um I think
for investors who were looking for
quality and liquidity for the past 3 to
four weeks that we can continue uh but
as you see this morning in Asia as well
as the futures market over in the last
few hours I think a risk on sentiment is
back on the back of this development
>> uh outside of or On top of just price,
are there any market other market
indicators uh worth paying attention to
that might indicate the trustworthiness
of of this move?
>> Well, I think um obviously the oil
market is going to be most sensitive
because of the direct impact. But if you
look at for example the US dollar where
we've seen any type of stress we've seen
the dollar appreciated on the back of
again liquidity demand and again once um
the ceasefire was announced the dollar
depreciated dollar index was down by
about 7%. So I think the US dollar is
again a quite a useful gauge on how a
different part of the markets are
thinking about this particular
geopolitical situation.
>> Taiwe Rebecca here. Um we had this
excellent interview uh yesterday with my
colleague Averil Hong interviewing
Singapore's foreign minister. He was
talking about markets not having fully
priced in the worst case scenario with
more of the economic fallout to come. I
wonder what are investors missing here
when it comes to risk.
>> Well, I think it's a couple of things.
First of all, um you know, I think the
market is trying to be relatively
optimistic with this situation. Partly
because if you take a big step back and
think about what is the rational thing
to do is really for the US uh recalling
victory and then slowly ease his way out
of the region and hopefully life gets
back to normal. I think that's how the
market is trying to anticipate a longer
perspective and the fact is if you look
past look at the past previous episodes
of geopolitical tension in the last 20
30 years uh the impact on the markets
tends to be relatively shortlived and
the fact that this time obviously
involving a stroke for moves that makes
it a bit more serious but I think the
market is all still correct in expecting
uh all the actors in this particular
conflict will come to negotiation or at
least a point of um cease far bill of
cool down uh not to really push us any
further than it needs to be. So I I I
can understand why the minister is
talking about uh the market not pricing
in fully the risks but at the same time
the market is not just pricing in one
scenario. It's trying to price a number
of scenarios some of which is relatively
benign. Some of them can be very serious
but I think the market is still taking
the view that all act as being rational
really for their survival or their you
know midterm elections coming up later
this year. All of which will try to
negotiate a way out uh in the in the
next weeks or months.
Okay. And and talking about uh rational
actors here, rate hikes, I have to ask,
are you shifting your uh forecast at all
and what would it take to move your
prediction there?
>> Well, I think the Federal Reserve has
been quite clear. They want to be
patient. Um partly because they're quite
right that this particular episode,
well, first of all, it feels like a
lifetime, but it's only been what month
and a bit when it comes to this
particular conflict. So in that sense
the impact on inflation and inflation
expectation is likely to shift in the
coming weeks and months. Um so I think
the Fed is absolutely correct in just
adopting the wait and see approach. Uh
and at the same time policy takes months
if not quarters to actually show effect.
So JPAL mentioned this last week. They
may raise rates know soon or if they
want to raise rates soon but the the
situation start to cool down and oil
price start to return to more normal
level then that rate hike will look
seems to be a bit of overreaction. So uh
my view is that this is a supply side
shot. Raising rates may not really do
very much in terms of uh uh helping
inflation to come down and more
importantly developed economies their
governments they don't really have a lot
of fiscal space to help the people out
with these type of inflation and
therefore central banks almost have the
responsibility to protect growth rather
than address inflation. Taiwe will be
staying with us of course uh he's of
course APAC chief market strategist at
JP Morgan asset management. We're going
into the reopen in Hong Kong and what a
time to be reopening. Uh we're up by,
let's call it 700 points in the hanging
index in the early going. So lots more
ahead. This is Bloomberg,
>> right? Index level, we're doing well.
What is happening underneath the hood in
the early goings? Rebecca, what are you
watching?
>> Yeah, well really two big ones. China
stocks all in focus here. First of all,
uh we'll take a look at oil. Yeah, a
little touch down on both fronts. Maybe
not totally surprising uh given there's
still quite a lot of volatility, still a
lot of uncertainty. Uh and then thinking
of course about gold stocks as well for
China. Um you know, we still to Tye's
point still waiting to see that kind of
big shift in investor sentiment when it
comes to sort of a more durable risk on
session. But yeah, all upwards of about
4% or more there.
Good morning and welcome back. You're
watching the China Show. We are counting
down to the open of markets and really
the big focus of course on this
ceasefire agreement between the US and
Iran and what happens next. One of the
key elements here is this issue of
futurep proofing and on durability of
the agreement that we see. Another
element throwing forward we've been
chatting with our guests this morning
about the intermediaries here who are
playing this critical role and perhaps
even influencing the eventual shape of
agreement that comes through. So we
talked about the role of Pakistan. Of
course we have that critical meeting
coming up on Friday in Islamad um as
well of course as the potential role of
Beijing to play a bigger part here as a
key stakeholder.
>> Yeah because in 5 weeks time that summit
is uh I believe scheduled between the US
president and the Chinese president.
Right. So it's hard to look at that and
disentangle that completely from what's
going on at the moment. And hopefully
this does lead of course into the next
two weeks which then leads to something
more permanent and how do we then need
to talk about uh the long tale of either
economic fallout. you know, was six
weeks long enough for that to play out?
Uh, and how do we need to think about
longer term in terms of investment
themes, right? Renewables, uh, risk
premium. Do we go back to 60 on oil or
is that or has that uh is that is that
cat out of the closet as we speak,
right? 2% to the upside on the CSI 300.
The big players are on the way up as you
can see bottom of your screens, bottom
row. Let's have a look at Hong Kong
which is perhaps slightly more relevant
in as far as because today we are
reopening in Hong Kong. So this is the
first reaction we're getting ac across
Hong Kong cash markets which also means
by the way pay attention to volumes
turnover and the stock connect is up and
running today. So look at southbound
flows for example uh you are getting
quite a strong bid across big tech and
Alibaba up about 3% each. Some of the
other platform names like mtoan were
trading up about 5% on that. Oil stocks
in focus. We've showed you that briefly.
We'll do that also very briefly. Right
now, your upstream players down as one
would expect given this 15% drop uh in
oil prices. Gold stocks has acted like a
risk assets more than a haven uh over
the last 6 weeks or so. So, we are
seeing that really on the back of this
risk rally, right? Um other sectors
we're tracking across the region,
shipping and airlines should be
breathing a massive sigh of relief and
some of these airlines like Quantis of
course on your screens. Uh and just a
broader read across equity markets.
European futures are also punching
substantially higher and the dollar is
weaker against everything given all the
news from the last 3 hours or so. Still
with us for some final thoughts. Taiwe
Apac chief market strategist at JP
Morgan Asset Management. If we assume
this is in fact a path towards permanent
peace,
what how do we need to be thinking about
the second order effects?
>> Oh, I truly hope so. Um, but let's wait
and see. But I think the important thing
is I think the market wants to get
through this particular phase of
negotiation. There could be some
longerterm discussions when it comes to
investment. For example, as you
mentioned earlier, could there be a new
risk premium being priced into energy?
uh if the history of humus is now in
play in terms of geopolitics, could we
see a greater diversification by
countries such as Korea and Japan uh
from their sourcing of energy, maybe
they'll buy more from the US, but that
requires significant long-term
investment in terms of energy
infrastructure in the US. Could we see
the Europeans, the Asian economies uh
leaning more towards new energy, for
example, solar and wind again further
diversify their energy sources? Final
point um you know obviously I think for
the last 6 n months we've seen a lot of
uh friction between the US and its
allies on geopolitics. Could this again
fuel the intention of extra defense
spending from Europeans from Asian
allies uh in order to protect themselves
from potential threats? And of course
what you've seen in the last few weeks
is the very cheap drones from Iran, very
expensive interceptors in the US. How
does that change the economics of
national defense, the industrial sector?
It doesn't mean that you spend more is
better. Do you how do you spend in a way
that is economical and is able to
withstand different types of threats? I
think a lot of this will get manifested
over time. If we get a uh a ceasefire
that is more sustainable and hopefully
again that that I certainly hope that's
the case. Um and also you know the the
situation can just dial down the
temperature for a little bit more. What
about earnings estimates? 6 weeks into
this, has that been long enough for
fundamentals to change?
>> Um, I think for the time being, if
investors may still see this more of a
blip rather than a long-term sustained
trend, of course, as we mentioned
earlier, the disruptions in the energy
market could be a bit more prolonged
because the physical infrastructure
needs to come back into normality. Um
but at the same time, you know, a lot of
the drivers of earnings mainly in
technology that to me seems to be
relatively resilient. They're able to
protect the profit margin. So I think
from that perspective, the market may
not be going through significant
downgrades if we were to get a more
sustained ceasefire over the coming
weeks.
>> Ta, I want to just shift focus here
briefly to look forward to this
potential meeting between President
Xinping and President Donald Trump. We
did have a few details emerging now
about the talks, the substance of the
talks, uh, you know, Jameson Gre, excuse
me, um, sort of confirming that rare
earth and the supply chains are going to
be on the table. I just want to ask, how
important is this meeting for markets?
Now, over the months and the years, we
have seen some kind of well, let's say
less responsiveness to these meetings.
Is it still important? And to what
extent I suppose is is the Iran context
going to be a critical point there for
markets?
>> I think what market will be looking for
is really just to contain the potential
friction points between US and China.
We've seen a lot of friction between the
two of them over the past uh one year
and also back in the first term during
the Trump administration first term and
the fact that I think both sides are
willing to just again calm down cool
down on uh tariff rhetorics and also the
export restrictions on rare earths
whether we could see more uh export
flexibility when it comes to
semiconductors from the US to China that
remains to be seen but I think the
market the first thing is uh the two
sides are in negotiation they're
discussing they're not dialing up the
temperature. That's the first point. And
anything they achieve in terms of more
sustained long-term trade uh partnership
or trade uh agreements, that will be the
sugar on top. But I think overall, we
are really just looking for the two
stars continue to negotiate and not
really escalate. We've got enough
escalation as is for 2026 already.
And just to pick up on that, I mean what
are the tactical changes that you are
making here both in that sort of short
term but maybe looking out beyond this
Friday Islamabad meeting?
>> Well, I think um in the very near term
investors have still been looking for
quality and liquidity. I think that
continues and I think the key point for
us is that uh staying invested
especially in some of the equity markets
for example the broader US market not
just in technology and also in Northeast
Asia again feeding into the AI
developments that continues to be our
core theme for 2026 when it comes to
fixed income uh investment grade
corporate debt high yield uh corporate
debt all of these are generating income
for investors which are really valuable
that consistent cash flow is very
valuable for investors just during time
of volatilities. So to me um I think
there's a whole lot of tactical shift
we're making over the past few weeks but
I think the most important point is to
stay invested and meanwhile uh income
generation continues to be a key theme
when it comes to portfolio construction
for APAC investors. Ju just a last note
we were talking during the break on Mag
7. I'll just use Nvidia as an example,
right? So, we were looking at Nvidia
something a stock obviously that's been
in the spotlight for the better part of
the last half decade.
>> It mean I was looking at that multiple I
never thought we'd ever see Nvidia trade
back at 20 times earnings which is where
we are right now. Is is the market
pricing in some macro pit there or is
that an opportunity of a lifetime?
>> I think the max 7 is mainly because of
the fear of overinvestment uh for these
companies. I think the broader market is
pricing the macro risk as you rightly
said. Um but I think the key here is
that these companies most of them are
still making a lot of money. They're
very good at generating earnings and
cash flows. Um and you know I over the
next few months next few quarters
investors will be assessing their AI
models how good they are and whether
they can really win this particular
race. So there's still going to be a
significant differentiation within
maximum within technology. But I do
agree with you. If you look at price
earnings, uh we've not seen Mac 7 or
tech stock this cheap for the past 2 or
3 years. So I do think there is an
opportunity for um you know some
addition in technology stocks in the
near term. Taiwe, fantastic. Thank you
so much for spending the time with us
here today on set. Taiwe, APAC, chief
market strategist at JP Morgan Asset
Management. Right, we're up 4% on the
regional benchmark. Volumes are about
15% heavier uh than this time of the
day. Southbond flows specifically into
Hong Kong are initially negative. So
we'll keep an eye on both those things
as we go into the thick of the session
here. Uh obviously we're looking at oil.
We're back below 100 bucks in case you
missed that. 94.95 on Brent in West
Texas amid this optimism amid hope that
the straight of Hormuz will be reopened.
More details on that specific angle to
the story just ahead. This is the China
show.
Okay, let's talk about why you're seeing
what you're seeing with the front-end
contracts on West Texas and Brent
leading just massive drop on price
across across the curve on both uh key
benchmarks right now and this really
comes down to that twoe ceasefire and
one of the conditions was of course the
reopening of the straight of formoose
which the Iranians said safe passage is
possible over the next two weeks or so
uh and how do we need to be thinking
about that Rebecca
>> Steven Septinsky leads our Asia energy
coverage and he is joining us now here
on that. Uh Stephen, just to kick off,
are we seeing any ships actually moving?
>> Not not exactly. Um but it's still very
early, right? This just happened the
last few hours. I think we're watching
really closely. There are a lot of
different reports out there. We're not
exactly sure what the situation on the
ground is at the moment. So, we do
understand that um that they could get
safe passage, but of course, Iran said
that they have to include their armed
forces and meet their technical um
measures as well. Um the AP reported
that they could be also charging their
toll um on their side as well. Um so
there is a lot of uncertainty exactly as
to how many ships can go through as
well. Right before the war you were
seeing 145 ships about a day going
through. Over the weekend we saw about
20 25 ships go through. So are we going
to be getting back to 145? Maybe not. Um
are we going to get back to 50%. Some
analysts say even that would be
challenging. Maybe more like 20%. So
going from that 10% to 20%, but there
are a lot of ships. There are hundreds
of ships within the Persian Gulf. Um not
just oil tankers, also liquid liquefied
natural gas tankers, LPG. How many of
those go through? Which ones get
priority? Is it going to be a log jam? I
think there are a lot of other sort of
technical questions you need to ask
ahead of time, but at the moment, we
haven't seen a big exodus yet. Um and I
think that's the market obviously cares
about it, but looking at the price
reaction, that's not something that
they're terribly bothered with. They're
just happy that there's a peace deal.
>> Just before we get into some of that
price reaction, can I ask you about some
of the logistics that you're talking
about here? We now have the Iranians
10-point plan as the workable basis
according to Trump. What are some of the
key elements here when it comes to
actually implementing this fora safe
passage through the straight?
>> I mean, I think in terms of actually
implementing any of this, um, when you
look at, uh, what's happened in the
past, right? Okay. So, let's let's take
a step back um and seeing what has
actually happened with the ships that
have gone through and uh they've been
very carefully organized and carefully
controlled by by Iran. They had to go
through a certain route um through their
waters. Um it was it was very specific
and it was very coordinated and it
involved um paying a certain amount of
money. Um, now in terms of what we're
seeing here at the moment, um, will you
still have to, you know, pay in
cryptocurrency or yan? Will you will you
have to go through a very specific route
through Iranian waters? Can you go
through Omani waters? Can you go through
just the center? Um, is this something
that will be um will we start to see
maybe a more of a military a naval
presence um from the US in the region?
um how will you figure out who has paid
and who hasn't paid? I mean I think
there are a lot of uncertainties and
that's part of what needs to be figured
out.
>> Okay. And prices finally
>> prices. Yes. Um so we saw prices really
fall quite a bit. Um I think you know
you've got Brent falling as much as 16%,
WTI falling a bit more. We're in the $90
level compared to for Brent we were in
the over $110 uh yesterday as we weren't
sure what the situation was going to be.
I think this is clearly a sigh of
relief, but I do have to remind you that
we are still well above the levels that
we were at at the end of February before
this conflict began. And so there is
still a bit of premium risk premium that
could kind of come out of the market. I
think the big question is what risk
premium and what premium has been
permanently baked in going forward?
Because are we now at a $90 level
situation going forward even if there's
a peace deal? Maybe, maybe not. Will it
go down to $80? will go down to $70. I
think the big question uh going forward
is, you know, going through Hormuz, how
much of that if if you're only getting
to 50% traffic, that does throttle
supply quite a bit and that does
increase prices. If you get to 100%,
maybe that kind of brings it back down
and then what is the risk going forward?
Is there a risk to another flare up? Do
we trust that Iran and the US can keep a
deal together? So because of that,
analysts and traders think it's pretty
unlikely we could go back down to $60
Brent, for example. Um, so this will be
an interesting thing to watch.
Unfortunately, it just means more
inflation for for the rest of the world.
>> Excellent, Stephen. Thank you. Excellent
point there on that kind of presiding
new reality that we now live in. Um,
that's Steven Stchinsky, who leads our
Asia energy coverage for us here in
Singapore. And staying on oil, Ecuador's
president says he will not bring back a
diesel subsidy in response to an
increase in fuel prices. Uh Daniel Nabau
was speaking with Bloomberg's Anmarie
Hordan earlier.
>> We're starting to feel it. Uh we have a
system that is partially subsidized in
terms of fuel cost and it can only go up
by a certain percentage every month. Uh
but it will catch up. I mean is the
reality of the world that we are an oil
uh producing country. So that helps us
also in in terms of income that we
needed.
>> The diesel fuel subsidy though is
removed. Would you consider bringing
that back?
>> No
>> no not on the table.
>> Not on the table.
>> Ecuadorian President Danielle Nibboa
there on how fuel prices are starting to
bite from the war. Speaking with
colleague of course Anmarie Hordern. Now
just going into this these crucial talks
right on Friday, the New York Times is
reporting that China had a role in fact
here to play uh in bringing about the
ceasefire agreements. For what we know
based on that report, Minman Lo, our
China correspondent is here with us to
just help us understand the role that
China is perhaps acting here as
mediator. Yeah, New York Times reported
briefly, this is based on their
conversation with three Iranian
officials and China had reportedly at
the last minute made an intervention
imploring the Iranians to be flexible
and to you know diffuse tension there as
particularly amid this concern that we
could see very catastrophic consequences
on global economies if uh critical
infrastructures are hit. Right? But you
know the question is we've been talking
a lot about the taco trade but now there
is a new term called wacko will the
ayatollah chickenen out and in this case
you know some analysts are surprised
that Iran actually agreed to reopening
the straight of homuz and perhaps China
has some role in influencing Iran on
that front but credit really has to be
given to Pakistan right because Pakistan
was able to relay messages between Iran
and Washington in a way that China
couldn't and that's partly because
Pakistan has been a close neighbor to
Iran. It also has a very powerful
military that for a long time was very
supportive of the US in that long war in
Afghanistan. So Pakistan played that
role facilitating a foreign nation
summit a couple of weekends ago and then
it updated China. The closed ties
between China and Pakistan certainly
helps as well because the two sides then
put out this five-point peace proposal
which they have been pushing for and it
looks like now Pakistan and China
combined perhaps helped to bring about
this temporary resolution for now.
>> Meanwhile there was this vote on the US
security council. We have China and
Russia I think vetoing of course that
move that would have I guess encouraged
uh nations to come in and
>> potentially a further escalation there
>> of the straight right. Has China
explained its stance on that?
>> Yes. So that was a proposal put forward
by Bahrain. Initially it was a very
strongly worded one authorizing the use
of force by UN member nations to secure
the straight of Homus and later on it
was watered down to suggest that the
country's member nations could
coordinate defensive efforts. But of
course, Russia and China were opposed to
that, saying that it was bias against
Iran. And China's stance has been very
clear. They're saying that such a move
will only escalate the conflict, right?
Because it's only addressing the
symptom, not the root cause. And the
root cause, it says, is the US and
Israel attacking Iran. So those two
countries need to take a step back and
come back to the negotiating table for a
political solution. They're saying that
this proposal would legitimize and
endorse an illicit war. It would endorse
an abusive use of force. and that's not
the route that we want to keep going in
on.
>> Uh, China correspondent Min Lo there,
thank you very much for joining us. Uh,
and elsewhere, other headlines we're
tracking this morning. China is setting
up a new mechanism to ensure the
security of its supply chains. Under the
new rules, Beijing will be able to
investigate foreign nations and
organizations if they adopt quote
discriminatory bans and other similar
actions. Retaliatory measures include
import and export bans while foreign
entities and individuals could also be
barred from China. Meanwhile, the IMF is
poised to cut its forecast for global
growth as a result of the war in Iran.
Managing director Cristina Georgieva
says the conflict has triggered a quote
negative supply shock that is driving
prices higher, making attention to
inflation a priority. The new figures
will be released next week when the IMF
and World Bank host global policy makers
in Washington. And here is a look at how
Asian markets are doing as we head into
the break. You're watching the China
Show. This is Bloomberg.
Good morning. You're watching the China
show and we are just keeping an eye on
the UN here. The onshore UN climbing to
the strongest since March 2023 against
the dollar of course off the back of
this ceasefire agreement the next two
weeks. Peace. I say that very
tentatively Dave that that we may see
and of course we have also had uh this
fixing uh the POC strengthening its
daily fixing for the um by the most in a
month. Dave,
>> yeah, it certainly helps and I think the
line chart is very indicative of really
where we are. When you look at the
candle, which I think is also quite
informant uh informative and as far as
the same thing is concerned, right? You
see that massive gap lower from the last
session into today which I think that
gap certainly represents this massive
sigh of relief across risk assets and in
this case of course has taken us out has
taken out the pre-war pre-Iran war
levels on the Chinese currency.
Something to watch as I guess this is
really also quite correlated to EM
assets generally speaking. Uh speaking
of um other stocks we're tracking at the
moment given the cash markets and where
we are uh a lot of the hardware makers
are seeing substantial upside uh here
today. Don't forget, right? Don't forget
there's a there's a separate AI story
that has continued to brew louder
throughout the course of the last six
weeks or so. And understandable, of
course, if you've had to take your uh
one eye off that or both eyes off the
story, but it is something that
continues. And as you can see, markets
are taking this window of opportunity uh
to jump on this, right? Uh as far as the
benchmarks go, so mainland markets were
trading yesterday. Hong Kong markets are
up and running, reopening today, 2.6% to
the upside. Last I checked the south
month flows were still quite negative
which I guess is that's a broader theme
we can talk about sometime else I think
but what we haven't quite snapped out of
this sort of day in dayout changes in
terms of southbound flows which is why
when you look at it from a range
perspective hanging index is still below
26,000 has been stuck in a range um for
the better part of the last uh broadly
beyond the last six six weeks or so.
Okay. Um, this tells you everything you
need to know across assets. Risk assets
are powering ahead on the back of this
collapse in commodity prices today. Lots
more ahead. This is the China show.
Good morning and welcome back. You're
watching the China Show. We are counting
down to New Zealand's rate decision
here. Uh shots of New Zealand there
across the water at 1:59 p.m. The
expectation is that we see uh an
extension of the rate pause and policy
makers there really still calibrating
the full fallout and the fuel shock from
the Iran war. uh waiting to see uh
precisely what kind of secondary and and
tertiary effects that we see rippling
out there as well. Um the uh Reserve
Bank's monetary policy committee is
holding uh the official CA cash rate at
2.25%.
They're going to also be discussing the
revised outlook for inflation and of
course that inflationary shock decision
uh being weighed across uh global
markets there and the decision just
coming through here crossing the desk as
we expected New Zealand leaving that
benchmark interest rate at the 2.25%
in line with the estimates that we had
expected Dave.
>> Yeah, no big event there. Uh perhaps we
we could get uh more context coming
through and uh just certainly this is a
good opportunity to u remind our viewers
that we do have of course that debrief
coming through with the RBNZ governor
Adam Brimman uh that's coming through of
course Thursday that's happening of
course on our early program in the age
of trade. Please, of course, tune in to
that conversation. Not so much about
what they did, but how they're looking
at uh the path of rates moving forward.
You know, was 6 weeks enough for the
boogeyman to show itself, step out that
that that that door u and perhaps leave
a lasting longtail impression on
markets, inflation, and rates, or have
we hopefully closed that door quick
enough for the boogeyman to just get
back in? Um that's just to say um
markets are currently looking through
this inflation scare currently. Uh
that's the operative word. Uh certainly
because as we anticipate this uh this
this this ceasefire this two week
ceasefire of course massive breaking
news this morning and as you can see the
nik is actually up at one point was up
the most since this time last year. So
5.4% is 3,000 points is something of
course you don't normally see uh
daytoday. Uh the story across currency
markets is one where the dollar is down
against everything. Uh dollar China in
fact dollar CNY on shore is now trading
at the strongest since March of 2023. So
call it a three year uh one month high
on dollar China or one month low on that
specific pair. Yields are down across
the board on the note we were just
making here about maybe how much can we
price out future inflation. And I think
something else to think about was a good
point coming through out of our guests
earlier on out of JP Morgan Asset
Management Taiwe is uh can you now
imagine a world where oil goes back to
6065 or are we going to be stuck in some
semi-permanent
uh premium being built into the oil
market because of the scarring uh that
we've had given the six weeks of course
in the Middle East. Uh gold is up and as
you can see some of the other plays as
well. Uh, do we have oil? Actually,
interesting. Should we show oil? Why
don't we show oil? Uh, Brent is down.
Uh, we opened below 100, I believe, on
Brent, West Texas was interesting
because we opened up uh and for about 40
minutes, we're trading north of 100. Uh,
and then the breaking news, the truth
social post out of the US president sent
oil prices sub 100. Right, let's get
more into that story, shall we? So yet
they have the US and Iran agreeing to
this two week ceasefire in exchange for
Thran reopening the straight of Hormuz.
Uh Iran says safe passage through the
waterway will be possible for two weeks.
Joanna Beti, our Horizon's Middle East
and Africa anchor is with us right now
from Dubai. What we know exactly about
that ceasefire. Joanna, what stood out
to you?
Well, David, a dramatic turn of events,
I've got to say, in the last 12 hours uh
here in the region. We went to sleep uh
possibly expecting the worst after the
latest truth social post coming through
from President Trump yesterday
suggesting that an entire civilization
may die uh from 4:00 a.m. onwards. But
instead, what we woke up to was news of
this twoe ceasefire. Now, he put up that
post about 90 minutes before this before
the 4 a.m. uh deadline came into effect
and essentially announcing the agreement
after Pakistan, the mediator in talks uh
reportedly implored the US to back off
that deadline and to return back to the
negotiating table. And so from that
post, what we glean is that it is a
two-week ceasefire. President Trump says
that they will suspend the bombing and
attacks of Iran for that period so long
as Iran agrees to the complete immediate
and safe opening of the Strait of
Hormos. Now this was also echoed by the
Iranian foreign minister as well Abbasi.
He himself also put up a post on true
social but then he also said that for a
period of two weeks safe passage through
the street of Horus will be possible via
coordination with Iran's armed forces.
So we can talk about that perhaps when
it comes to you know the details of of
how the next two weeks are going to work
especially with this the passage through
the straight of hormones. And then one
final point let's not forget Israel as
well. Uh and we have no official
confirmation from them that they are
subscribing to the ceasefire but a white
house official says that Israel are on
board. So what we've got here is a twoe
ceasefire but many questions still about
the details. What exactly is in it? Is
it going to hold? Is it going to lead to
a durable sessation to hostilities? Uh
but for now I would say it walking away
from the brink and the region is
breathing a bit of a sigh of relief.
Jamaa a sigh of relief but I have to ask
for how long? I mean how are you
assessing the likelihood that this
really does lead to a longerterm truce?
And what about some of the underlying
issues that are still prevalent here?
Exactly that, Rebecca. And I think you
know some of the key issues if you go to
the underlying issues that started this
war in the first place uh one of them
was Iran's capabilities, nuclear
capabilities, uh they're still sitting
on that uranium enriched stockpile.
They're still sitting on that 400 kilo
stockpile. So the US did not retrieve
it. The second point is they still have
their arsenal of uh missiles and missile
launchers. They can still in theory pose
a threat to their regional neighbors.
And the third important point and this
has evolved throughout the course of
this almost six week war is they now
realize that they have political
leverage over the strait of Hormos. And
to go back to what the Iranian foreign
minister was saying, he said that
vessels will still need to act in
coordination with Iran armed forces. So
one of the questions here is is the
straight actually open? Is it still
effectively going to be monitored by
Iran? And of course that is an outcome
that is not going to be acceptable for
Gulf regional neighbors. And then beyond
that, there's a question of the sheer
amount of infrastructure damage that has
already been sustained to the region. Um
many Gulf officials that I've spoken to
have said that they're going to ask for
war reparations. How is that going to be
figured out? Uh and then the final point
is actually you know to go back to where
we are right now. Many reports in the
last couple of hours still of ongoing
projectiles being fired both from Iran
into Gulf States here in the UAE. We had
a missile interception just a couple of
hours ago. So about an hour after the
ceasefire announcement and then also
Wall Street Journal reporting that there
are ongoing attacks into Iran. So
there's also question here about whether
the ceasefire has actually been
implemented. So, we've got this big
announcement, still some details that
need to be resolved.
>> Yeah. And and Jamanna, maybe just on the
you touched on this a little bit on the
straight uh which seems to be really
central to uh whatever else happens
beyond that.
>> How do we need to be looking at that
specific story? Is it until ships are
able to pass freely, perhaps slightly
more expensive?
uh is is that just the only way for us
to figure out whether or not that
condition has been met?
>> Well, you're uh market connoisseur Dave
and David and I'm sure you know you
would have looked at the price of oil
today and and you know we're still
trading at around $95 for brand which is
about 20 $25 higher than where we were
at the start of the war. The market is
still pricing a premium on the safety of
vessels passing through the straight of
Hormuz. I think this question as to the
free flowing of vessels over the next
couple of weeks is going to be a really
pertinent one to the oil market. Uh and
you know e even perhaps more more
pronounced when it comes to some of
these LNG uh supplies as well. And
yesterday we were talking throughout the
course of the day that not one loaded LG
tanker has managed to make it through
the straight of hormones. Uh Iran still
suggesting that over the next couple of
weeks, anyone looking to transit through
the straits will still need to get
permission from the Iran armed forces.
And uh there are other outlets reporting
that Iran really want to press on with
this plan to apply a transit or a toll
alongside Oman. Clearly, that's a
non-starter as well. So again, as long
as this rate remains a a big question
mark, I think you're going to continue
to see some of this upward pressure or
at least some geopolitical premium being
priced into oil. Add to that, of course,
the fact that there's still some
questions about the extent of damage and
repairs sustained at these many energy
infrastructure sites that have been
struck over the course of this war. Over
50 sites have been targeted, including
gas facilities, refineries, some
pipelines, some of the ports. Uh the
only uh one that's out in the open that
we know, you know, explicitly is going
to take a couple of years time at least
is Qatar Energy, their key LG facilities
over there, which account for about 20%
of the market. And so that is not a
negligible amount for the energy market
to account for in the coming months. And
at the same time, we also know
throughout the course of this war, many
countries have had to resort to
dwindling down their stockpiles and
their inventories uh to price up for the
scenario where they can't get hold of
the energy or the products that they
need. So, it's going to take some time
for all of this to get sorted.
Ultimately though, the big question is
how open is the street going to be for
vessels?
>> Key key question. Jamanna, fantastic.
Thank you so much. Joanna Reti there in
Dubai, Horizons, Middle East and Africa
anchor there. We fortunately we do have
a
a really good glimpse into traffic
there. So we have trackers on the
Bloomberg terminal. This is a chart by
the way for our Bloomberg clients. And
this updates actually every 30 minutes
and it's a 24-hour window. So if this
starts to tick up that should be a good
indicator whether or not the straight to
Jamata's point is is open and certainly
just underscores the straight of form.
Are you ready for a big word being non
infiniteesimally irrelevant given the
conversations we're having at this point
in time. Rebecca
>> well on that note non-infantessimally we
um have more on markets now with our
managing editor for Asia Equities uh
Leanting 2. I mean, lenting, let's just
start with the rally. It's been fairly
robust, but can you talk us through some
of the dynamics that we're seeing? And
are these consistent with what we've
seen before, or are we seeing a slight
shift?
>> Yeah, I think uh overall just because
the positioning was extremely light
going into today's event. We're seeing a
huge rebound and part of the rebound was
also driven by a scramble to take out
the hedges around this wall. So,
potentially short squeeze played a role
as well. uh investors are taking this as
a clearing event which is very much what
like what we saw in April last year in
terms of positioning uh predominantly
people are talking about adding back
risks right cautiously but adding back
risks they're reducing cash but we also
have another camp of investors talking
about they are actually thinking about
selling into the resist resilience that
we saw today so so overall I think
market definitely see this as clearing
the hurdle for them and signal ing a
signal to add back risks. But caution is
basically mentioned by every investor we
spoke to just because we don't know how
long this uh ceasefire will will whether
the ceasefire will also will turn into
the long-lasting peace and also whether
you know some party will violate some of
the agreements. So there is still a lot
of volatility that investors are
anticipating down the road.
>> Yeah. to your point about that
volatility, this very real risk about
the unpredictable durability of this
ceasefire that we see. Does it go beyond
two weeks? Are you seeing investors,
strategists, you know, asset managers
touting any opportunities, buying
opportunities somewhere in the next two
week ceasefire period? Yeah, I think
this sort of window albeit it may be
shortlived does open up sort of an
opportunity for people to look back at
fundamentals again. And speaking of
fundamentals, earnings is a main thing
because earning season starting again
and Korea, you know, we saw in Samsung
earnings yesterday, operating profit up
some eightfold and that is a reminder to
investors that North Asia tech names,
especially those in Korea that have been
beaten down in this war is worth another
look. And for Korea particularly, it's
interesting because it is very
vulnerable to energy shock. And if
energy prices are easing, that is
removing another risk for Korea markets
and Korea economy. So Korea is touted as
one of the best opportunities for
investors right now. And looking beyond
Korea, Southeast Asia, Vietnam was also
touted as a place to look at just
because Footsie just confirmed Vietnam
uh of its emerging market status and
Footsie is expecting some $6 billion
dollars of inflows into Vietnam
equities. Of course, we saw president uh
new president getting elected in Vietnam
yes uh yesterday as well quite progrowth
and Singapore again it's it's this is
where we are and this is a market that
is really resilient and people expect
fresh money continues to go into
Singapore equity market because of MAS
program to support the the nation's
stock market.
>> Lenting thank you so much lenting too
our managing editor for Asia Equities.
In fact, just on that note, uh before I
get to RBNZ, Vietnam is of course coming
online, as we speak, there's the risk
rally story and there's separately to to
to Liing's point, the uh the Footsie
story uh 3 and a half% to the upside uh
on the gauge there. Okay. Uh just an
update here of this hawkish hold coming
through out of the RBNZ and we are
seeing incrementally stronger uh on the
Kiwi dollar on the back of this
possibility this window they're opening
up in the event uh the second round
inflation effects will show up signs of
that that then would merit increases in
the official cash rate. So they're
leaving the door open for that in the
event that they do uh need uh to act
that they will act decisively
if CPI fails to hit the 2% mediumterm
target. Lots more ahead.
Let's bring in Jason Shanka, president
and chief economist at Prestige
Economics. I mean, let's kick off, I
think, first with this question about um
oil prices. We have been talking about
the futility this morning of returning
to a pre uh war context and pricing.
Where do you think we end up in this new
reality?
I
>> I think it's going to take a little
while. Well, there are on the one hand a
series of questions as to how viable the
ceasefire is. Will there be further
active kinetic conflict? I would suspect
there there may be fits and starts along
the path to a negotiated agreement. I
also think there are going to be
lingering concerns about damaged
infrastructure and production and there
will be those questions that linger that
could keep prices supported. But there
are also hopes that if this comes to a
negotiated agreement that perhaps this
may apply additional pressure to end the
Russian war in Ukraine. And that's
really because you see Iran and Russia,
they've had a strategic cooperation
agreement in place since January of
2025.
And if you've now eroded Iran's ability
to build ballistic missiles, manufacture
ballistic missiles and drones, some of
which were being sent to Russia for its
war in Ukraine. If we see that degraded,
which it very much seems like it has
been, then perhaps that could also push
Russia and Ukraine into a position where
a ceasefire is more thinkable. So you
could have a situation where we're
looking out, I don't know, 3 months, 6
months, 9 months, and peace breaks out
and that would be something where then
Russian oil could come back to the
market as well. These are things that
could apply downward pressure if we look
out a number of months. But in the
immediate term, prices are still likely
to be elevated because of concerns about
the stickiness of a potential ceasefire
and how smooth the transition to a
negotiated agreement will be. M
I mean just picking up on your point
there about the potential downward
pressure for prices. I I know you've
also had forecast calling for this
potential sharp increase in CPI. Just
wondering where that leaves the Fed.
Does it effectively tie their hands?
Where are you shifting your prediction
on this?
>> No, the that I think there's a couple
things. One, I do think you're going to
have some price scarring. I am
forecasting I've been consistently
forecasting that we expect the Fed to
cut rates twice this year. The Fed in
the last three sets of projections has
said they expect to cut rates only once
this year. I think we're likely to see
twice because I think we're going to see
growth data for Q1 slow further. Labor
market data likely to slow further. And
even though the jobs report out of the
US last Friday looked better than
expected. Hey, bigger than expected
payrolls. And the unemployment rate went
down. But the unemployment rate went
down because people left the labor force
and stopped participating. So that's not
a great reason for your unemployment
rate to go down. For the next report, I
expect the unemployment rate will jump
back up to 4.5.
That wouldn't be great if we end up with
a CPI. Our forecast is for the headline
CPI to be 3.3%
yearonear with the core at 2.7. That's
moving in the wrong direction. But if we
also see the unemployment rate rising to
4.5, potentially going higher, if
payrolls are weak, the Fed's going to be
in a very tough situation. So economic
data that come out over the next few
weeks are going to be watched very
closely. And even though people may want
to discount it and say, "Oh, well, this
was all about the war in Iran and now
we're moving towards a ceasefire, so
don't worry about it."
Some of it might linger for a while,
especially the elevated inflationary
pressure on headline CPI because
gasoline prices will not come down to
where they were before the conflict very
quickly.
>> Oh man, Jason, that sounds like
stagflation is the best case scenario.
>> Well, you know, stagflation in the 70s
was doubledigit
inflation with massive recession. that
that's not what we're talking about
here. We're talking about maybe
inflation this year for the year being
closer to 3 three and a half than 2 two
and a half. It's not great, but it it
it's not catastrophic. Unemployment
rate. Oh, yeah. Well, we might move a
little closer to 5%.
That is still very low. The average
unemployment rate since the beginning of
this century has been above 5%. I think
it's around 5.7 is the average that
we've had in the US since January of
2000. So even if the unemployment rate's
between 4 and a half and five, it's
higher. But this isn't stagflation
all 1970s.
>> I I'd be happy with that if my time
deposit was giving me 12%. Jason, uh
just broadening the view on the global
economy and your outlook this year.
>> Fair fair enough, David. You're right
about that. Well, look, I I do think
growth, you know, we're running risks
that Q1 GDP could slow, could be flat.
We could even see, is it possible it
could go negative? It's possible, but
you know, the longer that this conflict
drags on, the longer oil prices remain
high, the bigger the challenge there's
going to be going forward. But there are
other tailwinds for the economy. I think
AI and tech are a big tailwind for the
economy going forward. But I've been
consistently talking about, writing
about had a book on Cold War II. That's
where we are geopolitically. That's
where we have been for a number of
years. That's where we will be for a
number of years going forward. And I
think right now the biggest opportunity
is maintaining that technology momentum
that we're going to get productivity
gains from. Your managing editor just
talked about the value of ICT industries
and the Korean economy. you we're going
to see a number of places exchina where
tech is going to be really big as the US
and its military allies try to decouple
technological supply chains and all dual
use supply chains from China and and I
think there's going to be a lot of
opportunities there
>> Jason Shanker there out of prestige
economics and look at markets right now
we're doing well across equity markets
in the Asia Pacific
All right. Uh so a couple of things are
intersecting here when you look at this
tech story in China specifically. Um you
have obviously you have this risk rally
taking place. you have the underlying
tone of several um let's call it plot
lines along capex uh and also around
some reports which we'll try and figure
out and give you more details on and as
pertains to 10 cent by du and baba but
just suffice to say those things are
intersecting to give us what we're
seeing as we speak
the US and Iran are spinning this in a
way and sort of uh in a way calling
calling victory. And yet there are some
significant differences and the one that
I would point out that is most
significant is the Iranians saying they
will allow free passage for the next two
weeks through the straight of Hormuz but
in coordination with Iran's armed
forces. Um if the US agrees to that that
is that is a huge concession to Iran.
as we get more clarity, as we kind of
see what can they agree on, I think
markets will shift lower with that
confidence. But it is going to be very
tricky because I think the the reason
that Iran is even in a positioning to
negotiate right now is they would be
looking for some significant concessions
given the leverage they currently have.
And I think there is going to be some
serious discussions about how vital that
is, not just for for Israel in the
region, but the Gulf partners, which
which I think is going to be really
critical to unpack in the next week.
>> The fact that Trump is accepting that
the negotiations are going to be based
on Iran's proposal rather than the US's
proposal uh tells us a lot about what
actually has happened here, which is
that Trump has essentially recognized
this was an unwindable war. He had to
take an exit, but the exit had to be
based on uh parameters that the Iranians
had defined. Now, of course, it doesn't
mean that a deal is secure, nor does it
mean that Trump will not in those
negotiations push back on a lot of those
different points, but the basis, the
framework is what the Iranians have put
forward.
Just some of our guests there on really
their initial take and I have to
underscore that point because this is
really fresh. uh breaking news uh on
these developments in the last few hours
as it pertains to the Middle East. In
fact, we are just getting more lines
coming through here uh on the Middle
East and this is out of the AFP
uh reporting that the US president has
actually told the AFP he believes and we
were just talking about this earlier
that New York Times report Rebecca right
that he believes China actually got Iran
to the negotiating table and perhaps
that then I guess I guess in some ways
incentivizes for those talks to really
take place against the backdrop of the
world really wanting uh the ceasefire to
really take really take place on Friday.
So that is the the breaking news line.
So far we have on that specific news and
it's really leading to where markets are
currently. Uh in fact at 4.1% in the
regional benchmark we should be at
session highs if not close to that.
We're about 10 to 15% heavier on
volumes. In terms of market breath we're
about 75
70 to 75% on the benchmark basis on the
way up. Most sectors with the exception
as expected
of energy on the way down. Bloomberg
Asia dollar index is stronger bottom row
second to the right and Asia extraan is
also doing quite well 4% as we go into
the Japanese lunch break. Rebecca
>> Dave thank you. Yeah I I mean just to
pick up on your earlier point there very
interesting question on what role the
intermediaries are playing with Pakistan
of course playing this what seems to be
a very essential role in bringing the US
and Iran together. China too, as you
say, making uh reportedly making this
sort of lastditch uh push to encourage
the Iranians. Uh for more on that, let's
bring back Jason Shanka, president and
chief economist at Prestige Economics.
And I want to drill down a little bit
further into that point on on China.
Jason, I mean, we often talk about
China's short-term resilience, some
perhaps weakness when it comes to
thinking about a longer term conflict.
How is all of this in in your assessment
impacting China's uh global uh growth
outlook? How is it impacting its global
role as an amplifier as a stabilizer uh
to the world economy?
>> Obviously, the energy cost issue is a
bigger risk to the Chinese economy than
to say the US economy. Um you know, we
know that the Iranian oil is is critical
for for the Chinese economy. So it's not
surprising that they would want to see
this conflict ended where that that oil
could get out of the straight of Hormuz.
Some again a large percentage of which
does go to China. Uh I I know that a
very large role here has been played by
Pakistan and that's where on April 11th
in Islamabad where the um apparently the
next round of discussions are going to
happen around this as it's being
reported. So it does seem Pakistan's
playing a critical role here. Obviously
uh you know China wants that oil out
otherwise higher energy costs are really
detrimental to manufacturing in all of
the Asia-Pacific region.
Uh Jason, just to pick up I mean on the
other big of course driver of the global
economy thinking about the US here. I
mean are we at an inflection point when
it comes to US growth and what will tip
over from a slowdown into a more serious
and deeper uh um kind of crisis.
Ben M Bernanki is the one who famously
said that business cycles don't die of
old age, they get murdered. And so
people are always trying to round up the
usual suspects. And they think about the
tech bust, they think about the housing
crisis, they think about oil prices. And
these are the things that have caused a
number of recessions over the years. And
that's what people are watching for. I
think AI presents a lot of economic
productivity boost and tailwind for the
economy. That's a good thing. The high
energy cost is something that's not
great for consumers. That is something
to keep an eye on. But I'm not worried
about housing. I do think the US economy
this year is going to grow between 1 and
a half and 2%. But the first quarter
could be pretty weak. Our forecast is
that we'll see GDP at 1%. But we'll see
what happens with the incoming data. If
you've been watching the Atlanta Fed GDP
now, which is an iterative set of data
uh that that gives you an idea what
growth could look like, that's come down
with the most recent data print showing
cube one GDP could be around 1.3. That's
a lot lower than what we were seeing
just a couple weeks ago.
>> Uh Jason, I think we're showing on the
screens David Brent is at the highest.
So the physical uh proxy for uh energy
markets highest on record. A few weeks
ago uh people talked about the release
of some strategic reserves and at some
point over the next several weeks if not
already that supply shows up in the
physical markets in oil. What what's a
good assumption to have on the range for
oil prices over the next eight weeks?
This long tale?
Yeah, there there really is a long tale
here, David. I I think it would take
something truly tremendous for us to get
back down below $80 a barrel, but almost
anything going wrong in these ceasefire
talks could very quickly put us back
above $100 a barrel. So, you know, I I
think it is a very precarious moment
with a high degree of uncertainty. I
think a lot of companies are probably
looking at that. I think you're going to
see a lot of action in the futures
market and in the options market around
this. I'd expect to see a lot of volume
there. I also think that what people are
thinking about as priority right now for
traders, but also both corporate
strategy and physical and financial
traders, I think they're looking at the
forward curve and they're trying to
figure out how long price scarring could
impact crude prices. In other words, the
damage to infrastructure, uh the damage
to production, the disruption around
this, the probability of a a favorable
outcome. You one day does not a trend
make. And while today there's been a big
drop in oil prices and a big rise in
equities, a big drop in the greenback,
you know, that's just today. We'll have
to see how this plays out over the next
couple of weeks.
>> Jason, keeping us uh sober there on some
of that longer term sort of future
proofing. Um Jason Shanka, president and
chief economist at Prestige Economics.
Uh and for more analysis on the Middle
East situation, we're also joined by
Jesse Morates, senior lecturer in
political economy and comparative
politics for the Arabian Peninsula at
the Australian National University. Uh
Jesse, thank you so much for for joining
us. I want to talk about some of that
longer term perspective that we were
just chatting about with Jason there. I
mean, you've previously uh sort of said
that Thran has very few reasons to
deescalate and I so I want to look at
the uh kind of durability of this
two-week plan that we see. How are you
assessing the Iranians um
incentivization
to turn this into something longer term?
>> It's a great question. Um, and this is
something that I think I think brings
brings to bear how durable is this
ceasefire and what exactly is it going
to look like going forward? It's very
early days, but there's already
indications that there may be
disagreement about what does it mean
exactly to reopen the street of Hormuz?
For example, is Iran going to attempt to
exert tolls on international shipping as
they had been moving to do in the
previous days? um their incentive
ultimately is to make sure that in 2025
they agreed to a ceasefire deal that
didn't prevent the war in 2026. So they
have an incentive to make sure that this
outcome is as beneficial to them as
possible, but also to make sure that
they are positioned in these
negotiations to ensure that they don't
face further instability or further
conflict uh going forward. And if
necessary, they've now proven that they
can grab the street of Hormuz if they
need to. And it's very likely that not
only they but other actors including the
Houthies um and the Babylon straight and
the Red Sea and other actors around the
world are also looking at that and
saying okay well this is a viable
strategy. So even though the ceasefire
um agreement is uh a promising step for
the region. I would say at this point
I'd categorize it as quite fragile, very
dependent on how the different actors
interpret the terms of that agreement.
Very dependent on how Israel responds.
They haven't put out a lot of public
messaging yet so far. This is a
ceasefire deal between the US and Iran.
Um the Iranians have put out some
messaging suggesting that they believe
it also covers hostilities in Lebanon as
well. Um but the Israelis haven't yet
confirmed exactly what their role is. So
there are still active participants in
this conflict. Um and at this point the
ceasefire deal is pretty fragile.
>> To your point about the many active
participants that are still sort of
playing a role here, I want to follow up
and ask you about some of the
intermediaries. It does seem like
Pakistan has played a fairly essential
role. Uh there are reports that perhaps
Beijing also made this lastm minute
intervention. I mean how important is
that role that's being placed and played
by Pakistan? To what extent could we see
China entering the fray?
>> Yeah, another great question. So we have
a number of different parties who have
been trying to resolve this conflict
inside the region, outside across Asia.
Um the British have been holding for
example their negotiations trying to
reopen the straight of Hermuz but being
very clear that that's only going to
happen after the cessation of violent
conflict that typically you see the
Omanis and the Qataris are involved in
negotiations with Iran. That's what
happened with the previous nuclear deals
and the Omanis and the Iranians
certainly have been talking um but there
have been difficulties of course while
they are actively being bombed during
this campaign for them to play a
mediator role. So that has really
heightened the importance of Pakistan
and also China. And that's part of of
course this broader global geopolitical
shift that we're seeing where conflict
um and global power is increasingly
shifting towards the East Asian sphere
um and international actors such as
China are playing a greater role in
international mediation efforts but
trying to do so in a way that doesn't
bring them into the level of strategic
entanglement that actors such as the US
face in the region. So far, I think uh
China has um is likely to come out of
this conflict uh relatively well. They
were not seen as a major party to the
conflict. They were strategically quite
distanced from it, but they were pushing
for a sessation to hostilities. Um they
were a key actor potentially bringing
Iran to the table for negotiations. Um
and they also have been able to
demonstrate the extent to which their
own investment in renewable energy
technology has softened the blow.
They're still of course very exposed um
both directly through energy price
shocks but also through the um
possibility of global recession and
broader impacts on inflation. So they
did want an end to this conflict but
they were less exposed than they would
have been had they not made those
investments.
Jesse uh David here I want to pick up on
I think one of the points you made in
your in I think in the first answer
can we make an assumption that Israel is
is on board or do they have some degree
of agency still uh because certainly one
view was going into this they actually
got the US involved initially and I
wonder how safe an of an assumption we
can make that Israel is on board.
I mean, we can assume there's a very
high degree of coordination between the
US and Israel, as there always is on
foreign policy moves, but there is a
degree of agency that's worth watching
here. Um, and the fact that we saw
statements from the Israelis yesterday
that were very much about how well
positioned they were in this conflict
and how they were in it uh for the long
term and they were well prepared and
that coming ahead of this ceasefire.
Points suggest to me that um they may
not have been completely supportive of
this ceasefire at this stage. they may
have had further objectives uh which
makes sense for them. The US and Israel
have not been completely strategically
aligned um for the duration of this
conflict. The other thing to be aware of
of course is that in 2025 um Trump made
a deal with the Houthis. This was to uh
this was to do with the red disruption
to shipping in the Red Sea as a result
of the Houthis and he made a deal
between the Houthis and the US and very
quickly the Houthis announced that they
that didn't apply to them conducting
missile attacks on Israel. That's a line
they're holding to today as well. And so
it looked a little bit that the US had
left its key ally in the region a little
bit stranded as a result um of that
conflict. And there is potential for
that to occur here as well, but we'll
have to wait to see what messaging the
Israelis put out about their position on
this ceasefire and to what extent they
agree to cease hostilities not just
towards Iran but to other neighboring
states including Lebanon.
>> Jesse, I just want to pick up on one of
your earlier points that China is coming
out of this relatively well in terms of
that position that it plays as this
interlocutor. Um, do you see anything to
look out for in terms of sort of
concrete action that might uh uh kind of
cement some of that strong rhetoric of
support that we've seen? Are we
expecting what sort of diplomatic
actions can we expect to see perhaps out
of Beijing? I'm thinking particularly to
this Friday meeting uh that we have in
in Islamabad.
>> I think we're going to see increasing
prominence um of both these these
mediators both Pakistan and China. Um
there is of course in incredible
incentives for the entire international
global community to back uh this
ceasefire. Um the the ramifications of
this conflict have extended far beyond
the Middle East um and very quickly
escalated across much of the Middle East
directly. Um so and different states are
positioned very um differently in order
to um take advantage of the outcomes of
this conflict. I mean nobody wins a war.
That's the uh direct uh truth. But there
are states that are better and worse
positioned. Um and China is one of the
states that is better positioned will be
more uh will be better positioned in
future as a mediator and is potentially
better positioned to use this to
leverage their own um energy security
infrastructure. In some ways I think one
of the legacies of this conflict u may
be a shift in sort of global energy
order not just the global political
order. Um, and I think watching those
long-term ravocations of the conflict,
um, and how it impacts energy supply,
there's lots of conversations that
countries are very rightly having now
about, um, how they can secure their own
domestic self-sufficiency, and that will
be incredibly relevant in China and
abroad.
>> Yeah. If we don't learn from this,
right, Jesse, thank you. Uh, Jesse Morz
there, senior lecturer at the Australian
National uh, University. Thank you so
much by the way for uh for for taking
the time. Uh just to recap some of the
other big moves we're seeing across
these equity markets, right? So we saw
this really massive move out higher in
in tech. So whether that's this or this
broader cohort and you know this late
last week and you might have missed it
because we were going into a quiet and a
long weekend this new model coming out
of Deep Seek and this media report on
that they're preparing for that new
model launch that could actually it's
called the V4 by the way based on the
information. uh it could be powered
mostly across the Chinese supply chain,
which is perhaps why we're seeing this g
these gains uh on your screens, right,
Rebecca?
>> Yes. Coming up, the Iran conflict is
reigniting inflationary fears, but
Bloomberg opinion thinks there could be
a silver lining for Beijing. Details in
a few minutes. You're watching the China
Show. This is Bloomberg.
Now, while the Iran war reignites
inflationary fears, Bloomberg opinion
columnist Dan Moss thinks there could be
an upside for Beijing as it helps the
country combat deflation. He joins us uh
from Singapore. Dan, let's kick off. The
main thesis here.
>> The main thesis here, we're on the
subject of war. One of the great
economic tussles that Chinese officials
have been waging since the emergence
from CO has been inflation. Not the
inflation problem the Fed, the ECB, and
the BOE uh encountered after reopening,
but the precise opposite. Inflation is
too low. And really for the past couple
of years, certainly with producer prices
and to a lesser extent consumer prices,
they've been uncomfortably low. CPI has
just been, you know, a couple of
hundreds of a percentage point above or
below zero. Lately, it's been looking a
lot firmer. higher energy prices, if
they flow through to the broader
economy, could just give CPI that nudge
into a more comfortable zone for the
PBOC.
>> It's interesting and we also had kind of
policy makers in Beijing kind of talking
about deflation, which was once and to
some extent still is a very taboo
subject. Um, do you see policy makers in
Beijing making any other attempts or are
they able just to rely on this? And also
I guess I'm asking and interested about
that sort of secondary and tertiary
effect. How does this impact the broader
Chinese economy longer term?
>> Sure. Well, can they rely just on this?
No. Because no one can say how long this
conflict uh certainly in the contours
we've seen over the past couple of weeks
is going to continue. You know, if this
ceasefire really is the de facto end of
it, energy price has settled down, the
straight opens, this could be just a
blip. It's probably not. The Chinese uh
will also be looking for fiscal policy
to play a big role. And authorities have
clamped down on some of the most severe
examples of price cutting. So the PBOC
is not out of the woods here to any
degree, but these very confident
assertions that there'll be multiple
interest rate cuts this year, you know,
I wouldn't be so sure about those.
You've been in and around the Chinese
economy for a while yourself. If you go
back 18 months, late 2024 coming into
early 2012, the overwhelming consensus,
not just from Chinese economists, but
from highly paid people at big Wall
Street firms was we would see a huge
monetary easing from the PBOC in 2025.
And what did we get? 10 basis points.
Okay, end of last year, coming into this
year, a little reticent, but still
feeling that the PBOC had some work to
do and there will be a couple of uh
interest rate cuts. Now, I'm not saying
that won't happen, but it no longer
looks like such a sure bet.
>> Mhm.
>> And look, like all policy makers, uh,
Chinese officials like to present
themselves with a certain amount of
omnipotence. Yeah, Paul Vulkar thought
that was absolutely crucial. Um, so
they're not going to say, "Yeah, great,
great job, Donald Trump. You know, this
is inadvertently helping us."
>> But they might think it.
>> Okay, a daily dose of good inflation
perhaps. Um, that's Bloomberg opinion
columnist Daniel Moss joining us in
Singapore. And just before we head to
break, here's a quick look at Asian
markets and how they are doing. It's all
you need to know really. Look at that
sea of green. little bit of appetite
coming back into China markets after
this long holiday. Um, you're watching
the China show. Stay with us. This is
Bloomberg.
CSI300 set for the best day since
January. And certainly fast acting
emodium was the breaking news that
really alleviated this density of
problems burdened on the market
shoulders. And we're looking good,
Rebecca.
>> Yeah, thanks Dave. That's it for the
China show today. Uh, Insight with Has
Linda Armen is next. Stay with us. This
is Bloomberg.